For over 60 years, the New World translation of the Bible has been printed and distributed
by Jehovah's Witnesses.
The Witnesses are known worldwide as a people who not only print Bibles, but use them extensively.
They use their Bibles in their personal reading, in their congregation meetings, and in their
public ministry.
As a result, many have worn out multiple copies.
At the 2013 Annual Meeting of Jehovah's Witnesses, an updated version of the New World Translation
in English was released to a worldwide audience of more than 1.4 million.
This revised version is easier to read and understand.
New features include custom design fonts, new study tools, and a beautiful new cover.
A lot of research went into the construction of this Bible.
One goal was to produce a cover that could withstand the rigorous use that Jehovah's Witnesses
would give it.
Many thousands of hours were spent selecting, testing, and evaluating special materials.
For example, a polyurethane product was selected that is highly durable.
This material feels like soft leather and does not crease when folded.
Over 1,690 sample Bibles were field tested in all types of climates.
Those who did the testing submitted their observations and provided valuable information that was
used to improve the manufacturing process.
To produce this special book, new Bindry equipment was installed in both Wal-Kill, New York,
USA, and in Ebina, Japan.
This included new machines that cut the polyurethane cover material, new case makers that assemble
the cover components, and new burnishing machines that apply the title.
The title will not rub off because an additive in the cover material reacts to heat and
pressure, resulting in recess lettering that is part of the cover.
The materials typically used to line books produce covers that curled.
To solve the problem, Prynery personnel tested more than 580 combinations of liner materials
and glues.
A unique combination of glue and liner was found that produces a durable cover that stays
flat.
The design of the new cover was also carefully considered.
Many different colors and embossing styles were produced.
In all, 146 samples were tested before the governing body of Jehovah's Witnesses selected
the one to be used.
Why was so much time, money, and effort spent to produce this beautiful new Bible?
Because Jehovah's Witnesses believe that the Bible is God's Word to mankind.
No other book contains the comfort, encouragement, and practical guidance that can be found in
its pages.